Volunteer Outreach Email (#18)
srobo/volunteer-emails: SR2020/2019-09-13-volunteer-outreach.md

---
to: External organisations
subject: Help run a Robotics competition for 16-18 year olds
---

Hi,

> I'm writing to you on behalf of [Student Robotics][srobo], a nationwide charity that promotes STEM through an annual robotics competition for teams of 16-18 year olds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm writing to you on behalf of [Student Robotics][srobo], a UK charity that promotes STEM through an annual robotics competition for teams of 16-18 year olds.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'm writing to you on behalf of [Student Robotics][srobo], a nationwide charity that promotes  through a free-to-enter, annual robotics competition for teams of 16-18 year olds.
```

> We're entirely volunteer run and were wondering if any your societies members might be interested in becoming SR volunteers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're run entirely by volunteers and were wondering if any your societies members might be interested in becoming SR volunteers.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're entirely volunteer run and were wondering if any of your society's members might be interested in becoming SR volunteers.
```

# What is Student Robotics

> Student Robotics was founded in 2006 by a group of students at Southampton University and has since run 12 competitions with the SR2019 having 37 teams in total, from around the UK and one from Germany.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Student Robotics was founded in 2006 by a group of students at Southampton University. We have since grown outside of Southampton, and run 12 competitions with our last competition having 37 teams in total. Participating students are from all around the UK, with one team even travelling from Germany!
```

> Teams of students are given some robotics kits and the rules of a game at a 'Kickstart' event and over 6 months they must build, test and refine their fully autonomous robot before competing in a two-day competition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We give teams of excited students some robotics kit and introduce them to the rules of a game at a 'Kickstart' event in October. Over the next 6 months they must build, test and refine their fully autonomous robot before competing in a two-day competition. Throughout the process, we guide students through the engineering process, with mentors, "tech-days" and online support.
```

# What does volunteering look like? (Mentor, plan, help competition etc.)

> Volunteering for Student Robotis can involve a wide variety of tasks from events organisation, to kit development, to mentoring students, to just turning up to be a pair of hands at the events. Our volunteers are able to spend as much or as little time doing SR tasks as they wish.

Reviewer: We should focus a lot more on *our community* in this section!

Reviewer 2: Might be worth dropping the repeated 'to' here, and just comma-separate them. 

```suggestion
Volunteering for Student Robotis can involve a wide variety of tasks such as events organisation, kit development, mentoring students, or just turning up to be a pair of hands at the events. Our volunteers are able to spend as much or as little time doing SR tasks as they wish.
```

I agree with @trickeydan that wording this as a kind of "You're joining a community of people to achieve a combined goal" or alike. 

I also think the final line could do with being improved, so it's much more lax. Something like:

```suggestion
Volunteering for Student Robotis can involve a wide variety of tasks from events organisation, to kit development, to mentoring students, to just turning up to be a pair of hands at the events. We welcome all volunteers, no matter how much time they have to give - No time commitments are necessary.
```

> # How to join (volunteer link on the website (does that send out welcome introducing to Slack + GitHub?))

Reviewer: We should be introducing potential volunteers with something much more friendly than GitHub imo. 

Perhaps we could introduce them to SR in a video call?

Reviewer 2: I disagree, sort of.

I think it's a really useful thing to introduce someone by showing them what we do, such as our tasks repo (specifically linking to the issues page). The runbook would also be a good thing to link to.

As a longer term goal, having a _welcome pack_ is definitely something we should have.

Reviewer: I really would recommend against just showing new volunteers a list of tasks. They will need to feel involved and wanted by us, and the community before they will dedicate any serious time.

SRO made this mistake last freshers. And the one before. And the one before. Now they don't have enough people.
